data/experience.mdx, before:

---
title: Building reliable products that users love. Practicing servant leadership for Agile teams.  Pushing full-stack software engineering forward.
subtitle: "For 11 years, I have been programming solutions for various domains: financial, health care, transportation, and - most recently - cloud computing."
published: 2023-07-22
updated: 2023-07-27
---
<ResumeButton />

<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<TagsList tags={["current position"]} />
## Front-End Engineer II at Amazon Web Services (AWS)
### May 2022 - present
#### Focus areas

<TagsList
    tags={["performance", "observability", "accessibility"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>
#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "redux", "typescript", "full-stack", "rxjs", "project management", "micro frontends"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<LinkButton
    text={'AWS CloudWatch Logs'}
    newWindow
    link='https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html'
/>

Individual contributor for the CloudWatch Logs (CWL) team. My team and I maintain a feature rich AWS micro frontend that provides visualizations and insights into web service logs running at a global scale. I've implemented accessible and internationalized features that provided real time data to millions of users. As the world leader in monitoring solutions, this frontend team has to make critical considerations for thousands of different user devices and internet capability variations. Also, I've collaborated with service teams on developing high quality, high volume, and highly available services.

This role requires an expert skill level in frontend system design, React, TypeScript, and working in a rigorous, impactful, and
highly complex development environment which orchestrates thousands of frontend packages deployed independently.

#### Accomplishments

- <strong>August 2023</strong> - Lead the CWL team in migrating our entire API layer from one legacy backend service to a new, more secure backend service. This project required coordination with ongoing feature development, deep investigation into many packages to determine all legacy API usage, intricate monitoring and observability into the progress of the migration, fielding unknown service differences without customer impact, and accomplishing the migration without affecting console uptime.

<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<SplitContent>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["undergrad"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## BA in Digital Media Arts from Duquesne University
        ### 2008 - 2012
    </div>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["grad"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## MS in Media Arts and Technology from Duquesne University
        ### 2012 - 2014
    </div>
</SplitContent>

<SplitContent>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["side project"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## Act
        ### A general purpose, offline-first web and mobile app for achievement tracking.
        <LinkButton
            text={'Source'}
            newWindow
            link='https://github.com/joe307bad/act/'
        />
    </div>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["side project"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## Last
        ### A multiplayer mobile game of conquest and exploration.

        <LinkButton
            text={'Source'}
            newWindow
            link='https://github.com/joe307bad/last/'
        />
    </div>
</SplitContent>

<br />
<br />
<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<TagsList tags={["extended experience"]} />
## Senior Software Engineer, Team Lead at Homee, Inc.
### October 2021 - May 2022

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "react native", "typescript", "AWS", "OIDC", "microservices", "IOC"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<InlineLinkButtons>
    <LinkButton
        text={'Homee'}
        newWindow
        link='https://www.homee.com/'
    />
    <br />
    <LinkButton
        text={'Homee Pro Android app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=homee.provider.droid&hl=en_US&gl=US'
    />
</InlineLinkButtons>

Senior developer and team lead for four industry grade mobile applications for iOS/Android that focused on simplifying the process of assessing, estimating, and fulfilling insurance claims. I implemented advanced features such as turn by turn navigation, locations-based consumer and provider matching, offline syncing and fault tolerance, optical character recognition for analyzing estimates and receipts, and an intuitive scheduling interface including efficient native gestures and animations.

Also, I was a lead architect on cross team authentication and authorization using AWS Cognito. I planned and implemented a shared OIDC provider across a cluster of microservices and organized a new team dedicated to these types of infrastructure concerns.

<br />
<br />
## Senior Software Engineer at SoftWriters
### May 2020 - October 2021

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["C#", "typescript", "react", "react native", "docker", "distributed systems"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<InlineLinkButtons>
    <LinkButton
        text={'SoftWriters'}
        newWindow
        link='https://frameworkltc.com/'
    />
    <br />
    <LinkButton
        text={'FrameworkFlow Android app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.frameworkflow&hl=en_US&gl=US'
    />
    <LinkButton
        text={'FrameworkPOD iOS app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://apps.apple.com/us/app/frameworkpod/id1581605792'
    />
</InlineLinkButtons>

Senior developer and team lead on two enterprise mobile applications for iOS/Android and a myriad of n-tier web applications that support thousands of long-term care facilities. I developed, maintained, and managed several projects that serve 100,000+ concurrent users and provide services for delivering and tracking millions of prescription orders across the country.

Also, I was lead architect on new initiatives to position SoftWriters as a country-wide leader in pharmaceutical delivery practices. I lead architectural design sessions to create a decoupled, distributed system that will be responsible for recording the chain of custody of controlled and uncontrolled substances from pharmacies to long term care facilities.

This job required an expert skill level in C#, TypeScript, React, React Native, Docker, and distributed system design.


<br />
<br />
## Senior Software Engineer at Proofpoint
### September 2019 - May 2020

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "redux", "typescript", "full-stack", "CI", "CD", "git", "node.js", "nestjs"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Lead developer and code owner of multiple enterprise React/Redux/TypeScript applications that provide training assignments
and exercises to 15,000+ concurrent users. I provided architectural direction philosophy for a team of front-end
and back-end developers. This job required an expert skill level in React, Node.js (NestJS), TypeScript, CI/CD, Git, and the
principles behind scaling a multi-contributor code base within an Agile environment.

<br />
<br />
## Software Engineer at Idelic
### February 2019 - September 2019

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "typescript", "full-stack", "rxjs", "project management"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Developer for web applications aiding terminal managers of trucking companies with monitoring and improving
driver performance and safety. I utilized microservices via Docker to create a multi-tiered platform that achieved high levels of
concurrency, availability, and reliability. This job required an expert skill level in React, React Native, Redux, and Docker. Also required knowledge of Scala, PostgreSQL, and test-driven development.

<br />
<br />
## Software Engineer at PSI
### October 2017 - February 2019

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["C#", "angular", "OOP", "CI", "CD"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Software engineer responsible for creating and maintaining HR solution software that assists Fortune 500 companies with selecting the best
candidates available. I worked closely with Industrial and Organizational psychologists to develop algorithms that assess a
candidate’s potential for success. This job required extensive knowledge in C#, unit testing, OOP, Angular, JavaScript ES6, cloud computing, and CI/CD.

<br />
<br />

<TagsList tags={["early experience"]} />
## Senior Visual Developer at Brunner
### September 2014 - October 2017

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={[".NET", "angular", "jquery"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Lead Developer at YellowBridge Interactive
### July 2013 - September 2014

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["wordpress", "HTML", "CSS"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Web Application Developer at American Textile Company
### August 2012 - July 2013

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["PHP", "HTML", "CSS", "javascript"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Web Developer at McKesson
### May 2012 - August 2012

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["HTML", "CSS", "javascript"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Commit message:

[experience] adding info about CWL anomaly detection

data/experience.mdx, after:

---
title: Building reliable products that users love. Practicing servant leadership for Agile teams.  Pushing full-stack software engineering forward.
subtitle: "For 11 years, I have been programming solutions for various domains: financial, health care, transportation, and - most recently - cloud computing."
published: 2023-07-22
updated: 2023-07-27
---
<ResumeButton />

<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<TagsList tags={["current position"]} />
## Front-End Engineer II at Amazon Web Services (AWS)
### May 2022 - present
#### Focus areas

<TagsList
    tags={["performance", "observability", "accessibility"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>
#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "redux", "typescript", "full-stack", "rxjs", "project management", "micro frontends"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<LinkButton
    text={'AWS CloudWatch Logs'}
    newWindow
    link='https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html'
/>

Individual contributor for the CloudWatch Logs (CWL) team. My team and I maintain a feature rich AWS micro frontend that provides visualizations and insights into web service logs running at a global scale. I've implemented accessible and internationalized features that provided real time data to millions of users. As the world leader in monitoring solutions, this frontend team has to make critical considerations for thousands of different user devices and internet capability variations. Also, I've collaborated with service teams on developing high quality, high volume, and highly available services.

This role requires an expert skill level in frontend system design, React, TypeScript, and working in a rigorous, impactful, and
highly complex development environment which orchestrates thousands of frontend packages deployed independently.

#### Accomplishments

- <strong>September 2023</strong> - Contributed to the planning, development, and launch of <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/LogsAnomalyDetection.html">CloudWatch Logs anomaly detection</a>. My primary responsibility was building the user experience for log pattern analysis, log anomaly detection, and log pattern comparison using TypeScript, React, Redux, and React Query. My other responsibilities included curating a backlog of ranked feature improvements and bug fixes, planning cross-feature integrations (e.g. integration with data protection, query generation, cross-account functionality), and coordinating a high-impact launch during AWS's main conference (re:Invent).

- <strong>August 2023</strong> - Lead the CWL team in migrating our entire API layer from one legacy backend service to a new, more secure backend service. This project required coordination with ongoing feature development, deep investigation into many packages to determine all legacy API usage, intricate monitoring and observability into the progress of the migration, fielding unknown service differences without customer impact, and accomplishing the migration without affecting console uptime.

<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<SplitContent>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["undergrad"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## BA in Digital Media Arts from Duquesne University
        ### 2008 - 2012
    </div>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["grad"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## MS in Media Arts and Technology from Duquesne University
        ### 2012 - 2014
    </div>
</SplitContent>

<SplitContent>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["side project"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## Act
        ### A general purpose, offline-first web and mobile app for achievement tracking.
        <LinkButton
            text={'Source'}
            newWindow
            link='https://github.com/joe307bad/act/'
        />
    </div>
    <div>
        <TagsList tags={["side project"]} alignContent="left" />
        ## Last
        ### A multiplayer mobile game of conquest and exploration.

        <LinkButton
            text={'Source'}
            newWindow
            link='https://github.com/joe307bad/last/'
        />
    </div>
</SplitContent>

<br />
<br />
<span className="block pb-5 text-[#4ce0b3]">◆</span>
<TagsList tags={["extended experience"]} />
## Senior Software Engineer, Team Lead at Homee, Inc.
### October 2021 - May 2022

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "react native", "typescript", "AWS", "OIDC", "microservices", "IOC"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<InlineLinkButtons>
    <LinkButton
        text={'Homee'}
        newWindow
        link='https://www.homee.com/'
    />
    <br />
    <LinkButton
        text={'Homee Pro Android app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=homee.provider.droid&hl=en_US&gl=US'
    />
</InlineLinkButtons>

Senior developer and team lead for four industry grade mobile applications for iOS/Android that focused on simplifying the process of assessing, estimating, and fulfilling insurance claims. I implemented advanced features such as turn by turn navigation, locations-based consumer and provider matching, offline syncing and fault tolerance, optical character recognition for analyzing estimates and receipts, and an intuitive scheduling interface including efficient native gestures and animations.

Also, I was a lead architect on cross team authentication and authorization using AWS Cognito. I planned and implemented a shared OIDC provider across a cluster of microservices and organized a new team dedicated to these types of infrastructure concerns.

<br />
<br />
## Senior Software Engineer at SoftWriters
### May 2020 - October 2021

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["C#", "typescript", "react", "react native", "docker", "distributed systems"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

#### Links

<InlineLinkButtons>
    <LinkButton
        text={'SoftWriters'}
        newWindow
        link='https://frameworkltc.com/'
    />
    <br />
    <LinkButton
        text={'FrameworkFlow Android app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.frameworkflow&hl=en_US&gl=US'
    />
    <LinkButton
        text={'FrameworkPOD iOS app'}
        newWindow
        link='https://apps.apple.com/us/app/frameworkpod/id1581605792'
    />
</InlineLinkButtons>

Senior developer and team lead on two enterprise mobile applications for iOS/Android and a myriad of n-tier web applications that support thousands of long-term care facilities. I developed, maintained, and managed several projects that serve 100,000+ concurrent users and provide services for delivering and tracking millions of prescription orders across the country.

Also, I was lead architect on new initiatives to position SoftWriters as a country-wide leader in pharmaceutical delivery practices. I lead architectural design sessions to create a decoupled, distributed system that will be responsible for recording the chain of custody of controlled and uncontrolled substances from pharmacies to long term care facilities.

This job required an expert skill level in C#, TypeScript, React, React Native, Docker, and distributed system design.


<br />
<br />
## Senior Software Engineer at Proofpoint
### September 2019 - May 2020

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "redux", "typescript", "full-stack", "CI", "CD", "git", "node.js", "nestjs"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Lead developer and code owner of multiple enterprise React/Redux/TypeScript applications that provide training assignments
and exercises to 15,000+ concurrent users. I provided architectural direction philosophy for a team of front-end
and back-end developers. This job required an expert skill level in React, Node.js (NestJS), TypeScript, CI/CD, Git, and the
principles behind scaling a multi-contributor code base within an Agile environment.

<br />
<br />
## Software Engineer at Idelic
### February 2019 - September 2019

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["react", "typescript", "full-stack", "rxjs", "project management"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Developer for web applications aiding terminal managers of trucking companies with monitoring and improving
driver performance and safety. I utilized microservices via Docker to create a multi-tiered platform that achieved high levels of
concurrency, availability, and reliability. This job required an expert skill level in React, React Native, Redux, and Docker. Also required knowledge of Scala, PostgreSQL, and test-driven development.

<br />
<br />
## Software Engineer at PSI
### October 2017 - February 2019

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["C#", "angular", "OOP", "CI", "CD"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

Software engineer responsible for creating and maintaining HR solution software that assists Fortune 500 companies with selecting the best
candidates available. I worked closely with Industrial and Organizational psychologists to develop algorithms that assess a
candidate’s potential for success. This job required extensive knowledge in C#, unit testing, OOP, Angular, JavaScript ES6, cloud computing, and CI/CD.

<br />
<br />

<TagsList tags={["early experience"]} />
## Senior Visual Developer at Brunner
### September 2014 - October 2017

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={[".NET", "angular", "jquery"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Lead Developer at YellowBridge Interactive
### July 2013 - September 2014

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["wordpress", "HTML", "CSS"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Web Application Developer at American Textile Company
### August 2012 - July 2013

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["PHP", "HTML", "CSS", "javascript"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>

<br />
<br />
## Web Developer at McKesson
### May 2012 - August 2012

#### Required skills

<TagsList
    tags={["HTML", "CSS", "javascript"]}
    alignContent="left"
/>
