data/shorts/activity-widgets-for-joebad-com.mdx, before:

---
title: Building activity widgets for joebad.com
publishedAt: "2022-03-12"
description: A sample description of this application. .
seoDescription: This is the seoDescription for this markdown file.
category: "joebad.com,nextjs"
author: { name: "joe307bad" }
---

## Aggregating my activity from around the web

As a small side project, I built a series of widgets that automatically update when I use a few of my favorite apps. At the time of writing, I have written small integrations for a movie tracking app I use and also my most recent activity on GitHub. This project had a few goals:

- Integrate third party APIs using simple abstractions
- Limit API calls to once per day
- Horizontally scrollable/responsive widgets pinned to bottom of front page

Here is a snippet of the code I've used:
Here is a snippet of the code I've used:

```js
// sample code with prism syntax highlighting
const Article = defineDocumentType(() => ({
  name: "Article",
  filePathPattern: "articles/*.mdx",
  contentType: "mdx",
  fields: {
    title: { type: "string", required: true },
    publishedAt: { type: "string", required: true },
    description: { type: "string", required: true },
    seoDescription: { type: "string", required: true },
    category: { type: "string", required: true },
    author: {
      type: "nested",
      of: Author,
    },
    image: { type: "string", required: true },
  },
  computedFields,
}));
```

Commit message:

[shorts] refining styles for shorts page + adding subtitle contentlayer property

data/shorts/activity-widgets-for-joebad-com.mdx, after:

---
title: Building activity widgets for joebad.com
publishedAt: "2022-03-12"
description: A sample description of this application. .
seoDescription: This is the seoDescription for this markdown file.
category: "joebad.com,nextjs"
author: { name: "joe307bad" }
subTitle: 'There are a handful of online services I use to keep up with my professional interests and personal hobbies. I thought it would be fun to aggregate my activity across these services on the front page of my portfolio site.'
---

## Aggregating my activity from around the web

As a small side project, I built a series of widgets that automatically update when I use a few of my favorite apps. At the time of writing, I have written small integrations for a movie tracking app I use and also my most recent activity on GitHub. This project had a few goals:

- Integrate third party APIs using simple abstractions
- Limit API calls to once per day
- Horizontally scrollable/responsive widgets pinned to bottom of front page

Here is a snippet of the code I've used:
Here is a snippet of the code I've used:
Here is a snippet of the code I've used:

```js
// sample code with prism syntax highlighting
const Article = defineDocumentType(() => ({
  name: "Article",
  filePathPattern: "articles/*.mdx",
  contentType: "mdx",
  fields: {
    title: { type: "string", required: true },
    publishedAt: { type: "string", required: true },
    description: { type: "string", required: true },
    seoDescription: { type: "string", required: true },
    category: { type: "string", required: true },
    author: {
      type: "nested",
      of: Author,
    },
    image: { type: "string", required: true },
  },
  computedFields,
}));
```
